Ravens brought Elijah bread and meat morning and evening.
Jesus transformed a hundred gallons of water into a very fine wine.
A hundred and twenty Christians suddenly could speak different languages.
What do those three events have in common?
They were all three miracles produced by Holy Spirit.
But miracles are no longer happening today, is that right?
Not really if you think about it.
If we think about it, the peace, the love, the harmony of Jehovah's people in a world
that is so divided is a modern day miracle.
In contrast, Satan's world around us is becoming more divided by race, ethnicity, religion,
political affiliation, and so forth.
But Jehovah's people, more united than ever, and when we attend our assemblies and conventions,
we especially see this.
We see different races and nationalities enjoying a genuinely peaceful, joyful gathering.
In fact, looking at a world map, Sister Let and I are able to calculate that during the
past twenty years, we've attended assemblies, conventions, large gatherings, and at least
eighty-two different countries, and every one of them over a flood with love and joy.
And every one of them convinced us even more that these are Jehovah's people.
People he's gathered from all nations, tribes, peoples, and tongues into his organization
and is preparing for the new world.
But now we ask, what makes this modern day miracle possible?
To answer, it stems from a peaceful relationship that we have with our father, Jehovah, who
is called in 1 Thessalonians 523, the God of Peace.
As his children, we strive to imitate him, and we're all brothers and sisters, we have
the same father, so we are ones who show peace and love like our father.
But here's another question, is maintaining this peace and harmony automatic?
All is maintaining a garden, an automobile, our health, automatic.
No, it takes effort, doesn't it?
We're all imperfect, so we have to work at maintaining peace every day.
That's the thought, if you go to 1 Peter 3, please.
It does take effort.
1 Peter 3, verse 10, for whoever would love life and see good days must guard his tongue
from bad and his lips from speaking deception, let him turn away from what is bad and do
what is good.
Now notice, let him seek peace and pursue it.
So notice, effort to turn from bad, do good, seek peace and pursue it.
Two action verbs.
If you want to illustrate that, think of a policeman seeking pursuing a criminal.
The criminal is trying to get away, isn't it?
Well, peace tries to get away from us because of imperfection, but we have to pursue it.
Interestingly, the Bible links peace to happiness.
Proverbs 1220, the theme scripture for this talk says, those who promote peace have joy.
Matthew 5.9, happy are the peace makers, since they will be called sons of God.
Now, it didn't say happy are the peaceful.
See, that's just tranquil, passive, even a dead body is peaceful.
No happy are the peace makers, a peacemaker actively promotes peace.
He makes peace where it previously was lacking.
If you think about cows, they make milk.
Bees make honey, a cheese maker makes cheese, a peacemaker makes peace.
Peace has been lost, it's been disturbed, but he has skill in restoring it, and of course,
a peacemaker avoids doing anything that would disturb the peace in the first place.
He works very hard to create an environment where peace can prevail.
But now that leads us into the discussion about how peacemakers avoid the two peace destroyers,
jealousy and contentiousness.
Now, these two peace-disturbers are identified at James chapter 3.
Let's go there, please.
James chapter 3, and let's read together verses 14 and 15.
But if you have bitter jealousy and contentiousness in your hearts,
do not be bragging and lying against the truth.
This is not the wisdom that comes down from above.
It is earthly, animalistic, demonic.
You know, as first, jealousy is identified.
What is jealousy?
It means to resent someone because of his possessions, talents, or position.
Rather than be happy for him, we resent him, maybe even dislike him for what he has.
Usually things that we don't have.
But what makes this very serious is that jealousy can escalate to being envy.
Now, what is envy, and what's the difference between envy and jealousy?
One biblical reference works as this.
Jealousy refers to the desire to be as well off as another.
But envy refers to the desire to deprive another of what he has.
So the envious person, not only begrudges what someone has,
he actually wants to take it away from him.
That second peace destroyer, contentiousness.
What does that mean?
Being disagreeable, argumentative, competitive, terrible quality.
It's the product of pride and selfish ambition.
And as we read earlier, in James 3, 14, and 15,
it's certainly not part of that wisdom that comes down from above.
But rather, it is earthly, characteristic of earthly humans who are alienated from God.
It is animalistic, characteristic of animals who lack spirituality
and are often contentious with each other.
It is even demonic, characteristic of the wicked spirits
who are very proud and ambitious.
But genuine peacemakers work very hard to avoid these two peace-disturbers,
jealousy and contentiousness.
They neither flop their talents nor do they feel threatened
if others are more skilled preachers, teachers, organizers or shepherds.
They're very happy to be considered a lesser one,
as Jesus encouraged at Luke 9.48.
Now it's true, a peacemaker made his art certain privileges of service,
but he is not consumed with ambition.
See, he's balanced in his approach.
As it says at 1 Timothy 3-1,
if a man is reaching out to be an overseer,
he is deserous of a fine work.
But it didn't say he should ambitiously grab to be an overseer.
See, he's balanced.
We could illustrate this by reaching out
for a nice tasty piece of fruit on a tree
and then think of a small boy very aggressively grabbing for a toy,
perhaps to try to take it away from another boy.
There's a real difference, isn't there?
But now how does a peacemaker reach out
to qualify for privileges of service?
Well, he just works hard to develop Christian qualities
within himself, and he just works hard
in behalf of King Dementres.
And he's guided by Galatians 6 verse 4,
where it says he will have cause for rejoicing
in regard to himself alone and not in comparison with the other person.
Additionally, a real peacemaker humbly waits on Jehovah
to determine when he's qualified to receive a certain privilege.
And Jehovah knows, doesn't he?
I love the account about Moses,
how when he was 40 years old,
he really thought he was qualified ready
to lead the Israelites out of Egypt.
But Jehovah knew he wasn't ready yet.
But now after tending flocks for 40 years in mid-end
when he was now 80 years old,
Jehovah knew now he was ready.
Interestingly, at this point, Moses thought he wasn't ready.
But Jehovah assured him that he was.
And when a peacemaker does receive a privilege of service,
he credits receiving it to Jehovah
and not as a personal achievement.
So to conclude this portion of our talk about avoiding
these peace disturbers, we say,
may we all strive to be genuine peacemakers
analyzing ourselves, praying for Jehovah's spirit
to help us to avoid any tendency to be jealous,
to envy, or to be contentious with our brothers.
But now let's talk about some things we can do personally
to promote peace and joy.
In fact, let's talk quickly about six things we can do.
Number one, cultivate humility and modesty.
Humility means to consider others superior to ourselves.
Modesty means to be aware of our own limitations.
Now if we have those two closely related qualities,
we'll be able to apply Romans chapter 12, verse three,
which says we should not think more of ourselves
than it is necessary to think,
but to think so as to have a sound mind.
Here's the second thing we can do to promote joy and peace.
Appreciate and value the good qualities and talents of others.
Focus on their good points, not their flaws.
And how thankful we can be that Jehovah does that with us.
Otherwise, we'd be doomed, wouldn't we?
But maybe you heard the illustration of a brother
holding up a white piece of paper
with a red spot in the middle
and asking an audience what they see.
We'll most say they see a red spot.
But then he points out that actually 99%
of what they're looking at is white paper.
But we tend to notice the spot.
Well, if we're not careful,
that's what we can do with our brothers.
Notice that flaw rather than all the good qualities.
But may all of us cultivate the Jehovah-like quality
of noticing, appreciating, and valuing
the good qualities of our brothers.
Now here's the third thing we can do.
Never presume that fellow Christians
are trying to outdo us.
1 Corinthians 137 says,
love believes, love hopes all things.
So we believe we hope that our brothers
are doing what they're doing out of a good motive
to please Jehovah, not to outdo us.
And we remember Jehovah's appointed only one judge, Jesus.
We are no judge.
We have no right to negatively judge our brothers' motives.
Now here's the fourth thing we can do.
Strive to always rejoice over our brothers' privileges
and successes.
Romans 12, 15, rejoice with those who rejoice.
Weep with those who weep.
Now which is easier?
Well generally it's not so hard to weep
with someone who's had some tragedy.
But now what if some really good things happen to them
and it hasn't happened to us?
I'm so happy.
I just got appointed as a regular pioneer.
Now we were really hoping to get into the pioneer
work ourselves, but we haven't been able to do it.
Are we gonna really be happy from our heart
with our brother?
Well, if we love our brother and we love Jehovah,
then we're gonna work really hard
to have that right attitude from our heart.
See, we will smash any hint of jealousy
we'll smash it with love.
Now here's a fifth thing we can do.
Faithfully support those who serve in responsible positions
such as the elders and obviously doing that.
Supporting these ones or taking the lead
definitely promotes peace and joy in the congregation.
Here's one more thing,
center your life on serving Jehovah and helping others.
Rather than focusing on ourselves,
maybe our feelings, our perceived reputation.
If we focus on serving Jehovah
and helping our brothers,
we'll truly be peace promoters in the congregation.
By doing those six things,
we'll prove that we're peacemakers,
peace promoters who are reflecting the wisdom from above.
Now that's the thought again,
let's go back to James chapter three,
that wisdom from above.
Now that's what we want to reflect.
James chapter three,
and let's take a look this time at verse number 13.
Who is wise in understanding among you?
Let him by his fine conduct demonstrate works performed
with a myleness that comes from wisdom
and then drop down to verse 17.
But the wisdom from above is first of all pure,
then, now notice, peaceable.
It didn't say peaceful, passive, peaceable.
That means a peacemaker.
Reasonable, ready to obey full of mercy and good fruits,
impartial, not hypocritical.
Moreover, the fruit of righteousness is sung
in peaceful conditions for those who are making peace.
Yes, we're encouraged to be a peacemaker.
And when we do this, we bring joy to ourselves.
We impart joy to others.
And most importantly, we make Jehovah rejoice.
But now think about this.
What's a peacemaker?
Doesn't mean always a peacemaker.
We have to keep working at this quality.
Now this will be well illustrated
in the following video interview.
I got married in 2002.
Around that time, I was appointed a ministerial servant
and my wife and I were serving as regular pioneers.
In 2004, we were given the opportunity
to serve as special pioneers.
It was something that we really wanted
because we wanted to do more for Jehovah.
So when we got that assignment, we were delighted.
The brothers in the congregation were also very happy for us.
But everything did not go smoothly.
As time went on, I faced some difficult situations.
The fact that I was not appointed as an elder
made me feel disappointed.
In one congregation, two brothers
who had served as ministerial servants for a shorter time
than I had were appointed as elders.
I felt that those brothers did not have
as much experience as I had.
I thought, I am the one with the experience.
So why didn't I get appointed?
I started to question my own qualifications
and this made me very sad.
After the two brothers were appointed,
I started to dislike them.
I was also angry with them
and the anger even progressed a little toward hatred.
It was a real challenge for me to serve in that congregation
at any meetings was difficult.
I would go with the heavy heart.
I put a lot of effort into making personal changes,
changing my attitude and getting rid of my negative traits.
I knew that if I did nothing,
it was going to affect the worship I give to Jehovah
and also the relationship with my brothers.
My wife and I could end up completely losing our joy.
In order to make things right,
I prayed intensely to Jehovah.
I spent time in deep personal Bible study.
My wife would also find articles
about maintaining peace with the brothers
and would give them to me to read.
She even selected kingdom songs
that dealt with maintaining peace
and she would sing them to me.
I made a lot of changes to my attitude
and worked hard to progress as a person
whom Jehovah would approve.
I tried to view my brothers the same way Jehovah did
and to serve him with joy.
I really wanted to give my best to Jehovah
and to the brothers.
At the same time, I did not want those wrong thoughts
to ever come back into my heart.
The valuable lessons that I have learned
is that privileges are not more important.
Rather, it is serving Jehovah
that brings genuine happiness.
And now I am finding real joy and satisfaction
in my service to Jehovah.
So may each of us prayerfully work
to have the attitude of wanting to be a peacemaker.
And when we do this, we prove to Jehovah
we're the kinder person that he wants in his new world.
In Psalm 37 11, it says of the new world,
the make will possess the earth
and they will find their exquisite delight
in the abundance of peace.
So the new world will be a very peaceful place.
But if we're a peace promoter now,
we will convince Jehovah
that we will be an asset toward that peace of his new world.
And think about this.
In the new world, it will be natural
for perfect people to just display peace.
This beautiful aspect of the fruitage of Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
But right now we have to work at it, don't we?
We have to seek peace pursuant.
But if we're a peace pursuer now,
we will convince Jehovah
that we will be a peace displayer
in his righteous new world.
And he'll want us to be there.
So let's diligently promote peace
and contribute toward the strength
the happiness of Jehovah's beautiful organization,
which really is a modern day miracle,
remembering that those who promote peace have joy
and they impart joy to others
and they make Jehovah's heart rejoice.
And all of that rejoicing will last forever.